##ENCODING ISO-8859-1
##PROCEDURE(help,nospec,label="MultivariatePowerSeries/PuiseuxSeries",versionnew="{ZONKEY}") MultivariatePowerSeries[PuiseuxSeries]
##TITLE(halfline="create a Puiseux series")
##    MultivariatePowerSeries[PuiseuxSeries]
##ALIAS PuiseuxSeries, MultivariatePowerSeries:-PuiseuxSeries, MultivariatePowerSeries
##AUTHOR Matt Calder, Juan Gonzalez Trochez jgonza55@uwo.ca, Marc Moreno Maza moreno@csd.uwo.ca, Erik Postma
##
##CALLINGSEQUENCE
##- PuiseuxSeries('p', 'X', 'U', 'R', 'E')
##- PuiseuxSeries('g', 'mp', 'E')
##- PuiseuxSeries('q', 'mp', 'E')
##
##PARAMETERS
##- 'g' : polynomial or power series generated by this package
##- 'q' : rational function
##- 'mp' : (optional) list of equations representing the change of variables to be applied to
##   'g' or 'q'
##- 'E' : (optional) list of equations representing the exponents of a monomial multiplying 
##   the Puiseux series
##- '[x_1,...,x_p]' : (optional) list of ordered variables for the space of formal multivariate Puiseux series 
##- '[u_1,..,u_m]' : (optional) list of ordered variables for the space of formal multivariate power series
##- '[r_1,...,r_m]' : (optional) list of grevlex positive n-dimensional rational rays
##
##DESCRIPTION
##INCLUDE PuiseuxSeriesIntro.mi
##-	We call 'g' the internal power series of the Puiseux series to be created; 'X'
##	the variable order of the Puiseux series space; and 'U' the variable order of
##	'g'. Note that we can use the set of rays 'R' to generate a cone _C_ in usual 
##	way.
##- The calling sequence ~PuiseuxSeries(g, X, U, R, E)~ creates a Puiseux series living in 
##	_X^e_ __"`&Copf#|;`[C] [[X]]"__. Where _C_ is the cone 
##  generated by the set of rays 'R', 'g' is a polynomial, or a 
##  formal multivariate power series living in __"`&Copf#|;`[C] [[X]]"__, 'R' is a list of grevlex positive 
##  n-dimensional rays contained in _Q^p_, and 'E' is a list of the form [_x[1]_=_e[1]_,...,_x[p]_=_e[p]_] with 
##  e = (_e[1]_,..,_e[p]_) in _Q^p_; where __"`&Copf#|;`[C] [[X]]"__ denotes the multivariate 
##	Puiseux series over _Q_ with support inside _C_. The support of a Puiseux series
##	is defined as the set of exponents of all the monomial multiplied by a nonzero
##	constant.
##- The calling sequence ~PuiseuxSeries(g, mp, e)~ creates a Puiseux series living 
##	in _X^e_ __"`&Copf#|;`[C] [[X]]"__. Where _C_ is the cone generated by the set of rays 'R', 
##	'g' is a polynomial or a formal multivariate power series living in __"`&Copf#|;` [[U]]"__,
##	'mp' is a list of equations of the 
##  form _u[i]_ = _X^r[i]_ for i=1,...,m, and 'E' is a list of the form [_x[1]_=_e[1]_,...,_x[p]_=_e[p]_] with 
##  e = (_e[1]_,..,_e[p]_) in _Q^p_ . The command ~PuiseuxSeries~ internally
## 	generates a set of positive grevlex rays 'R' and variable orders 'X' and 'U', 
##	using 'mp' as a reference. Note that there must be one of equation in 'mp' for 
## 	each of variables in 'g'. It is also important to mention that all the _r[i]_ must be 
##  grevlex positive rays.
##- The calling sequence ~PuiseuxSeries(q, mp, e)~ creates a Puiseux series living
##	in _X^e_ __"`&Copf#|;`[C] [[X]]"__. Where _C_ is the cone generated by the set of rays 'R',
##	'q' is a rational function in the variables 'U', 'mp' is a list of equations 
##	of the form _u[i]_ = _X^r[i]_ for i=1,...,m, and 
##  'E' is a list of the form [_x[1]_=_e[1]_,...,_x[p]_=_e[p]_] with e = (_e[1]_,..,_e[p]_) 
##	in _Q^p_.  The command ~PuiseuxSeries~ internally
## 	generates a set of positive grevlex rays 'R' and variable orders 'X' and 'U', 
##	using 'mp' as a reference. Note that there must be one of equation in 'mp' for 
## 	each of variables in 'q'. It is also important to mention that all the _r[i]_ must be 
##  grevlex positive rays.
##
##INCLUDE assignment_warning.mi
##
##EXAMPLES
##> with(MultivariatePowerSeries):
##-(lead=indent) Create a Puiseux series, determine its inverse, multiply them 
##  and find its truncation to homogeneous degree 15. 
##> p := PowerSeries(1+u*v); X := [x, y]; U := [u, v]; R := [[1,0], [1,-1]]; E := [x=-5, y=3];
##> a := PuiseuxSeries(p, X, U, R, E);
##<(verification="type") object
##> b := Inverse(a);
##<(verification="type") object
##> c := a*b;
##<(verification="type") object
##> Truncate(c, 15);
##<(verification="type") polynom
##>(nohelp) ldegree(Truncate(c, 15) - 1);
##<(verification="verify,greater_than") 5
##- Note that truncating a Puiseux series truncates its inner power series. 
##-(lead=indent) We can also compute the inverse _b_ by specifying the rational 
##	function that is the inverse of
##  the polynomial _p_ and the appropriate 'E'.
##> mp := [u=x^(1)*y^(0),v=x^(1)*y^(-1)]; E := [x=5, y=-3];
##> b := PuiseuxSeries(1/(1+u*v), mp, E);
##<(verification="type") object
##> c := a*b;
##<(verification="type") object
##> Truncate(c, 15);
##<(verification="type") polynom
##>(nohelp) ldegree(Truncate(b, 15)  - 1);
##<(verification="verify,equal") 0
##-(lead=indent) Create a Puiseux series with the expression _exp(x)_ as
##	internal power series.
##>	g := PowerSeries(d -> (u+v)^d/d!, analytic=exp(u+v));
##> mp := [u=x^(1/4),v=x^(3/5)*y^(-2/5)];
##> b := PuiseuxSeries(g, mp);
##<(verification="type") object
##> Truncate(b, 5);
##- If any of the vectors in 'R' or any of the exponents in 'mp'
## 	is not grevlex greater than zero, an error is thrown.
##> R := [[1,0], [-1,1]];
##>	PuiseuxSeries(p, X, U, R, E);
##<(verification="testerror") 
##> mp := [u=x^(1/4),v=x^(-5)*y^(2)];
##> PuiseuxSeries(g, mp);
##<(verification="testerror") 
##
##SEEALSO
##- "MultivariatePowerSeries"
##- "Inverse"
##- "Truncate"
## 
##XREFMAP
##- MultivariatePowerSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries
##- Inverse :  Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[Inverse]
##- Truncate : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[Truncate]
