##ENCODING ISO-8859-1
##PROCEDURE(help,nospec,label="MultivariatePowerSeries/SetDisplayStyle",versionnew="{XENOMORPH}",versionupdated="{ZONKEY}") MultivariatePowerSeries[SetDisplayStyle]
##TITLE(halfline="set display style for a particular power series or a Puiseux series or univariate polynomial over power series")
##    MultivariatePowerSeries[SetDisplayStyle]
##TITLE(addtoindex,halfline="set global display style for power series or Puiseux series and univariate polynomial over power series")
##    MultivariatePowerSeries[SetDefaultDisplayStyle]
##ALIAS SetDefaultDisplayStyle, MultivariatePowerSeries:-SetDefaultDisplayStyle, MultivariatePowerSeries,
## SetDisplayStyle, MultivariatePowerSeries:-SetDisplayStyle
##AUTHOR Ali Asadi masadi4@uwo.ca, Alex Brandt abrandt5@uwo.ca, Marc Moreno Maza moreno@csd.uwo.ca
##
##CALLINGSEQUENCE
##- SetDisplayStyle('p', 'd')
##- SetDisplayStyle('s', 'd')
##- SetDisplayStyle('u', 'd')
##- SetDefaultDisplayStyle('d')
##
##PARAMETERS
##- 'p' : power series generated by this package
##- 's' : Puiseux series generated by this package
##- 'u' : univariate polynomial over power series generated by this package
##- 'd' : list of equation(s) of the form 'option' = 'value' 
##  where 'option' can be 'maxterms', 'precision', or 'maxdegree', 
##  and 'value' is either a non-negative integer or 'infinity'
##
##DESCRIPTION
##- Whenever a power series or a Puiseux series or univariate polynomial over power series is displayed, whether simply
##  as the result of a computation or by an explicit call to the "Display" command, Maple uses some
##  parameters to determine which terms to show and which terms to elide. These parameters and their
##  settings are called a *display style*.
##- Display style settings can come from four different sources.
##-- When calling the "Display" command, you can specify a display style explicitly. This overrides
##  all other settings.
##-- If no display style is specified, or when displaying the result of a
##  computation without a call to "Display", Maple uses the display style set for the specific power
##  series or a Puiseux series or univariate polynomial over power series that is to be displayed, if any is set. This
##  is done with the 'SetDisplayStyle' command, as explained below.
##-- Otherwise, Maple uses the style last set using the 'SetDefaultDisplayStyle' command, if
##  any. This, too, is explained below.
##-- Finally, if no display style is set, Maple uses its default values, described together with the
##  individual parameters below.
##- If some parameters are specified in a display style 'd1' that is overridden by a different
##  display style 'd2', then Maple will completely ignore 'd1'. Any parameters that are not set in
##  'd1' will get their default values.
##- When displaying a computation result or calling "Display", the display style can only *limit*
##  the terms displayed. It will never cause extra terms to be computed.
##
##SUBSECTION Details of the calling sequences
##- ~SetDisplayStyle(p, d)~ sets the display style of the power series 'p' with the settings given
##  by the list 'd'. The argument 'd' is a list of zero or more equations of the form 'maxterms=n'
##  or 'precision=n', where 'n' is either a non-negative integer or the symbol 'infinity'.
##- ~SetDisplayStyle(s, d)~ sets the display style of the Puiseux series 's' with the settings given
##  by the list 'd'. The argument 'd' is a list of zero or more equations of the form 'maxterms=n'
##  or 'precision=n', where 'n' is either a non-negative integer or the symbol 'infinity'.
##- ~SetDisplayStyle(u, d)~ sets the display style of the univariate polynomial over power series
##  'u' with the settings given by the list 'd'. The argument 'd' can take the same entries as for
##  ~SetDisplayStyle(p, d)~, but additionally, the option 'maxdegree=n' can be used.
##- ~SetDefaultDisplayStyle(d)~ sets the default display style for all power series and univariate
##  polynomials over power series. In this case 'd' can specify all three options: 'maxterms',
##  'precision', and 'maxdegree'. Only the first two are applied to power series; all three are
##  applied to univariate polynomials over power series.
##ENDSUBSECTION
##
##SUBSECTION The parameters making up a display style
##-(lead=bullet) 'maxterms' (default value: 50)
##-(lead=indent) Applicable to power series and univariate polynomials over power series.
##-(lead=indent) This parameter sets the maximum number of terms to be displayed. For a power
##  series, this is straightforward. For a univariate polynomial over power series, the terms in
##  each of the coefficients (which are power series) are counted.
##-(lead=bullet) 'precision' (default value: 'infinity')
##-(lead=indent) Applicable to power series and univariate polynomials over power series.
##-(lead=indent) This parameter limits the precision, that is, the homogeneous degree of terms to be
##  displayed. Again, for a power series this is straightforward. For a univariate polynomial over
##  power series, the degree in the main variable is not counted, only the degrees in the
##  coefficients.
##-(lead=bullet) 'maxdegree' (default value: 'infinity')
##-(lead=indent) Applicable to univariate polynomials over power series only, not to power series.
##-(lead=indent) This parameter limits the degree of the main variable for displayed terms. If the
##  degree of the univariate polynomial over power series in its main variable is greater than the
##  specified value, then the rest is elided.
##ENDSUBSECTION
##
##INCLUDE assignment_warning.mi
##
##EXAMPLES
##> with(MultivariatePowerSeries):
##- We define two power series and tell Maple to compute their expansion up to homogeneous degree 10.
##> a := GeometricSeries([x, y]);
##<(verification="type") object
##> UpdatePrecision(a, 10):
##> b := SumOfAllMonomials([x]);
##<(verification="type") object
##> UpdatePrecision(b, 10):
##- If we update the default display style to set the precision to 5, then _a_ and _b_ are displayed
##  using that style.
##> SetDefaultDisplayStyle([precision=5]);
##> a; 
##> Display(b);
##- We can override this for, say, _a_, by setting its display style differently.
##> SetDisplayStyle(a, [maxterms=20]);
##> a;
##- This does not affect the display of _b_.
##> b;
##- If we specify a display style in a "Display" call, that overrides the display style set in _a_.
##> Display(a, [maxterms=10]);
##- We also define a univariate polynomial over power series and ensure each coefficient is known to
##  precision 10.
##> f := UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries([GeometricSeries(x), PowerSeries(1 + x + y), GeometricSeries([x, y])], z);
##> UpdatePrecision(f, 10):
##- The default display is as follows.
##> f;
##- If we are only interested in terms of _f_ that are at most linear in the main variable, we can
##  use the 'maxdegree' parameter.
##> SetDisplayStyle(f, [maxdegree = 1]);
##> f;
##
##SEEALSO
##- "Display"
##- "PowerSeries"
##- "PuiseuxSeries"
##- "GeometricSeries"
##- "UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries"
##- "HomogeneousPart"
##- "MainVariable"
##
##XREFMAP
##- Display : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[Display]
##- PowerSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[PowerSeries]
##- PuiseuxSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[PuiseuxSeries]
##- GeometricSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[GeometricSeries]
##- UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries]
##- HomogeneousPart : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[HomogeneousPart]
##- MainVariable : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[MainVariable]
