##ENCODING ISO-8859-1
##PROCEDURE(help,nospec,label="MultivariatePowerSeries/SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound",versionnew="{ZONKEY}") MultivariatePowerSeries[SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound]
##TITLE(halfline="set a nonzero_pso_bound for a Puiseux series") MultivariatePowerSeries[SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound]
##TITLE(halfline="set a smallest_term_bound for a Puiseux series") MultivariatePowerSeries[SetSmallestTermDegreeBound]
##ALIAS MultivariatePowerSeries:-SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound, MultivariatePowerSeries, MultivariatePowerSeries:-SetSmallestTermDegreeBound
##AUTHOR Matt Calder, Juan Gonzalez Trochez jgonza55@uwo.ca, Marc Moreno Maza moreno@csd.uwo.ca, Erik Postma
##
##CALLINGSEQUENCE
##- SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound('bound', 's')
##- SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound('bound')
##- SetSmallestTermDegreeBound('bound', 's')
##- SetSmallestTermDegreeBound('bound')
##
##PARAMETERS
##-	'bound' : a non-negative integer
##- 's' : (optional) Puiseux series generated by this package
##
##DESCRIPTION
##- These commands set two parameters in a Puiseux series object. The parameters, called the
##  'nonzero_pso_bound' for `SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound` and 'smallest_term_bound' for
##  `SetSmallestTermDegreeBound`, are used in computing multiplicative inverses. The function of
##  the parameters is explained on the "Inverse" help page.
##- Using the first or third calling sequence, we set the 'nonzero_pso_bound' or
##  'smallest_term_bound', respectively, equal to 'bound' for the given object 's'. This is 
##  used when computing the inverse of 's' (unless overridden in the "Inverse" command itself).
##- Using the second or fourth calling sequence, we set the global default value for
##  'nonzero_pso_bound' or 'smallest_term_bound', respectively. This value is used when computing
##  the inverse of a Puiseux series object for which that parameter has not been set using the first
##  or third calling sequence (unless overridden in the "Inverse" command itself). Initially, the
##  default value for both parameters is 10.
##- All calling sequences return the previously stored value for the given parameter.
##
##INCLUDE assignment_warning.mi
##
##EXAMPLES
##> with(MultivariatePowerSeries):
##-(lead=indent) Create two Puiseux series. 
##> p := PowerSeries(d -> piecewise(d=0, 1, d=1, u+v, 0), variables={u,v});
##> X := [x, y]; U := [u, v];
##> R1 := [[1,0], [1,-1]]; R2 := [[2, 2], [2, -2]];
##> E1 := [x=-5, y=3]; E2 := [x=12, y=8];
##> s := PuiseuxSeries(p, X, U, R1, E1);
##<(verification="type") object
##> t := PuiseuxSeries(p, X, U, R2, E2);
##<(verification="type") object
##- We set a new 'nonzero_pso_bound' for 's'.
##> SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound(15, s);
##- We can also set a global 'nonzero_pso_bound' for all Puiseux series.
##> SetNonzeroPowerSeriesDegreeBound(17);
##- We set the 'smallest_term_bound' for 't' to 5.
##> SetSmallestTermDegreeBound(5, t);
##- We haven't modified the global default value for 'smallest_term_bound' from its initial value of
##  10. Now computing the inverse of 's' will use 15 for the 'nonzero_pso_bound' and 10 for the
##  'smallest_term_bound', and computing the inverse of 't' will use 17 for the 'nonzero_pso_bound'
##  and 5 for the 'smallest_term_bound'.
##> Inverse(s);
##<(verification="type") object
##> Inverse(t);
##<(verification="type") object
##
##SEEALSO
##- "MultivariatePowerSeries"
##- "PuiseuxSeries"
##- "Inverse"
## 
##INCLUDE PxRef.mi
##
##XREFMAP
##- MultivariatePowerSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries
##- PuiseuxSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[PuiseuxSeries]
##- Inverse : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[Inverse]
