##ENCODING ISO-8859-1
##PROCEDURE(help,nospec,label="MultivariatePowerSeries/Truncate",versionnew="{XENOMORPH}") MultivariatePowerSeries[Truncate]
##TITLE(halfline="Truncate a power series or univariate polynomial over power series")
##    MultivariatePowerSeries[Truncate]
##ALIAS Truncate, MultivariatePowerSeries:-Truncate, MultivariatePowerSeries
##AUTHOR Ali Asadi masadi4@uwo.ca, Alex Brandt abrandt5@uwo.ca, Marc Moreno Maza moreno@csd.uwo.ca
##
##CALLINGSEQUENCE
##- Truncate('p', 'd')
##- Truncate('u', 'd')
##
##PARAMETERS
##- 'p' : power series generated by this package
##- 'u' : univariate polynomial over power series generated by this package
##- 'd' : (optional) non-negative integer
##
##DESCRIPTION
##- The command ~Truncate(p, d)~ returns the sum of 
##  all homogeneous parts of 'p' of degree at most 'd'.
##  In other words, ~Truncate(p, d)~ returns  the natural image of the power series 'p'
##  modulo  the __"(d+1)^`th|`"__ power of the maximal ideal of the
##   ring of power series.
##- If 'd' is greater than the current precision of 'p', then the necessary extra terms are computed.
##- If 'd' is not specified, all currently
##  computed terms are used and no extra ones are computed. In other words, the default value of 'd' is the precision of 'p'.
##- The command  ~Truncate(u, d)~ returns the polynomial obtained
##  from 'u' by replacing each coefficient 'p' with the sum of the homogeneous parts of 'p' of degree at most 'd'.
##  In other words, each coefficient is replaced by its image modulo
##   the __"(d+1)^`th|`"__ power of the maximal ideal of the
##   ring of power series.
##- If 'd' is not specified, the precision of each coefficient is used. If the coefficients are
##  currently known to different precisions, they will consequently be truncated at different
##  degrees.
##
##INCLUDE assignment_warning.mi
##
##EXAMPLES
##> with(MultivariatePowerSeries):
##- We define the geometric power series in the variables _x_ and _y_.
##> a := GeometricSeries([x,y]);
##- It is initially computed only to low precision.
##> Truncate(a);
##<(verification="member") {1, 1+x+y}
##- If we update its precision, then the 'Truncate' command returns more terms.
##> UpdatePrecision(a, 3);
##> Truncate(a);
##< 1 + x+y + x^2+2*x*y+y^2 + x^3+3*x^2*y+3*x*y^2+y^3
##- We can get lower precision by specifying the truncation degree.
##> Truncate(a, 2);
##< 1 + x+y + x^2+2*x*y+y^2
##- We define a univariate polynomial over power series involving _a_.
##> f := UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries([GeometricSeries(x), GeometricSeries(y), a], z);
##- The constant and linear coefficients of _z_ are known to a different precision than the
##  quadratic coefficient. By default, the 'Truncate' command will return all known coefficients
##  regardless of degree.
##> Truncate(f);
##<(verification="member") {1 + z + (1 + x+y + x^2+2*x*y+y^2 + x^3+3*x^2*y+3*x*y^2+y^3)*z^2,
##  1+x + (1+y)*z + (1 + x+y + x^2+2*x*y+y^2 + x^3+3*x^2*y+3*x*y^2+y^3)*z^2}
##- If we specify the truncation degree as 2, then more terms of the constant and linear coefficient
##  are computed and some terms of the quadratic coefficient are omitted.
##> Truncate(f, 2);
##< 1 + x + x^2 + (1 + y + y^2)*z +  (1 + x+y + x^2+2*x*y+y^2) * z^2
##
##SEEALSO
##- "PowerSeries"
##- "GeometricSeries"
##- "UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries"
##- "Precision"
##- "HomogeneousPart"
##- "UpdatePrecision"
##
##XREFMAP
##- PowerSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[PowerSeries]
##- GeometricSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[GeometricSeries]
##- UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[UnivariatePolynomialOverPowerSeries]
##- Precision : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[Precision]
##- HomogeneousPart : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[HomogeneousPart]
##- UpdatePrecision : Help:MultivariatePowerSeries[UpdatePrecision]
